dvc 2.0 pre-release (#2211)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-02-18-dvc-2-0-pre-release.md

---
title: DVC 2.0 Pre-Release
date: 2021-02-17
description: |

>   Today, we're announcing DVC 2.0 pre-release. We'll share learnings from our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Today, we're announcing DVC 2.0 pre-release. We'll share lessons from our
```

  journey and how these will be reflected in the coming release.

descriptionLong: |

>   The new release is a result of our learnings from our users. There are four
>   major features are coming:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The new release is a result of learning from our users. There are four major
  features are coming:
```

>   🔗 ML pipelines templating and iterative foreach stages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  🔗 ML pipeline templating and iterative foreach stages
```

  🧪 Lightweight ML experiments

  📍 ML model checkpoints

  📈 Dvc-live - metrics logging

picture: 2021-02-18/dvc-2-0-pre-release.png
pictureComment: DVC 2.0 Pre-Release
author: dmitry_petrov
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/dvc-3-years-anniversary-and-1-0-pre-release/374
tags:
  - Release
  - MLOps
  - DataOps
---

## Install

> First things first. You can install the 1.0 pre-release from the master branch

Reviewer 2: 1.0 -> 2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First things first. You can install the 2.0 pre-release from the master branch
```

in our repo (instruction [here](https://dvc.org/doc/install/pre-release)) or
through pip:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: 💅 bash -> dvc

and put $ at the beginning of the line

> ```bash
> pip install --upgrade --pre dvc

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```dvc
$ pip install --upgrade --pre dvc
````

```

> ## ML pipelines parametrization and foreach stages

Reviewer: Are we going for "parameterization" (extra `e` preferred BTW), "templating", or both (as-is)?

Reviewer: I guess we can use both "parameterize" and "templating" (even "templatized") for now and see which ones users adopt. Resolving

> ## ML pipelines parametrization and foreach stages

Reviewer 2: foreach -> `foreach`

Reviewer: I don't mind either way but here's the easy commit suggestion:
```suggestion
## ML pipelines parametrization and `foreach` stages
```

After introducing the multi-stage pipeline file `dvc.yaml`, it was quickly

> adopted among DVC users. The DVC team got tons of positive feedback from users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adopted among our users. The DVC team got tons of positive feedback from them,
```

as well as feature requests.

> ### Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pipeline parameters from `vars`
```

> The most requested feature was the ability to use parameters in the pipeline
> file. So, you can pass the same seed value or filename to multiple stages in the
> pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most requested feature was the ability to use parameters in `dvc.yaml`. For
example, you can pass the same seed value or filename to multiple stages in the
pipeline.
```

```yaml

> var:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vars:
```

    train_matrix: train.pkl
    test_matrix: test.pkl
    seed: 20210215

...

stages:
    process:
        cmd: python process.py \
                --seed ${seed} \
                --train ${train_matrix} \
                --test ${test_matrix}
        outs:
        - ${test_matrix}
        - ${train_matrix}

        ...

    train:
        cmd: python train.py ${train_matrix} --seed ${seed}
        deps:
        - ${train_matrix}
```

> Also, it gives an ability to localize all important parameters in a single `var`
> block and play with them. This is a natural thing to do for scenarios like NLP
> or when hyperparameter optimization is happening not only in the model training
> code but in the data processing as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, it gives an ability to localize all important parameters in a single
`vars` block, and play with them. This is a natural thing to do for scenarios
like NLP or when hyperparameter optimization is happening not only in the model
training code but in the data processing as well.
```

> ### Pipeline params from params.yaml

Reviewer 2: 💅 params.yaml -> `params.yaml`

Reviewer: Oops we reviewed at the same time. I left a code suggestion for this one and other 💅 you mentioned too. I guess I'll just commit those (resolving yours too).

> ### Pipeline params from params.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pipeline parameters from params files
```

> It is quite common to define pipeline parameters in a config file or the
> parameters file `params.yaml` instead of in the pipeline file `dvc.yaml`.
> Parameters defined in `params.yaml` can also be used in `dvc.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is quite common to define pipeline parameters in a config file or a
parameters file (like `params.yaml`) instead of in `dvc.yaml` itself. These
parameters can also be used in `dvc.yaml`.
```

> Params.yaml:

Reviewer 2: `params.yaml` (inline code?)

> Params.yaml:
> 
> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```yaml
# params.yaml
````

models:
  us:
    thresh: 10
    filename: 'model-us.hdf5'
```

> Pipeline file `dvc.yaml`:
> 
> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```yaml
# dvc.yaml
````

stages:
  build-us:
    cmd: >-
      python script.py
        --out ${models.us.filename}
        --thresh ${models.us.thresh}
    outs:
      - ${models.us.filename}
```

DVC properly tracks params dependencies for each stage starting from the

> previous DVC version 1.0. See
> [params option](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/run#for-displaying-and-comparing-data-science-experiments)
> in `dvc run` for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
previous DVC version (1.0). See the
[`--params` option](/doc/command-reference/run#for-displaying-and-comparing-data-science-experiments)
of `dvc run` for more details.
```

Or should we link to [/doc/command-reference/params](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/params) instead?

> ### Iterating over params with foreach stages

Reviewer 2: foreach -> `foreach`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Iterating over params with `foreach` stages
```

Iterating over params was a frequently requested feature. Now users can define

> multiple similar stages by a single command.

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
multiple similar stages with a templetized command.
```
Or "parameterized"

Reviewer 3: Should it be "templatized" instead of "templetized" (not sure either is a real world 🤷 )?

Reviewer: Good point, with `a` it has SOME results out there: https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?geo=US&q=templatize,templetize

Or maybe we should say "variable command"?

```yaml
stages:
  build:
    foreach:
      gb:
        thresh: 15
        filename: 'model-gb.hdf5'
      us:
        thresh: 10
        filename: 'model-us.hdf5'
    do:
      cmd: >-
        python script.py --out ${item.filename} --thresh ${item.thresh}
      outs:
        - ${item.filename}
```

## Lightweight ML experiments

DVC uses Git as a foundation for ML experiments. This solid foundation makes
each ML experiment reproducible and accessible from Git history. This Git-based
approach works very well for ML projects with mature ML models when only a few
new experiments per day are running. However, in more active development when
dozens or hundreds of experiments need to be run in a single day, Git creates
overhead - each experiment run requires additional Git commands
`git add/commit`, and comparing all experiments is difficult.

We introduce lightweight experiments in DVC 2.0! This is the way of
auto-tracking without any overhead from ML engineers:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: yaml -> dvc

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```dvc
````

$ dvc exp run
...
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-0c0f7
…
$ dvc exp run --params learning_rate=0.03
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-bc5cd

$ dvc exp run --params learning_rate=0.025
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-49181

$ vi train.py  # edit code
$ dvc exp run --params learning_rate=0.025
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-a814a
```

See all the runs:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: yaml -> dvc

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```dvc
````

$ dvc exp show --no-pager
```

Any of the runs can be easily obtained with code, data and models:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: yaml -> dvc

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```dvc
````

$ dvc apply exp-49181 Changes for experiment 'exp-0c0f7' have been applied to
your current workspace.
```

## Model checkpoints tracking

ML model checkpoints are an essential part of deep learning. ML engineers prefer
to save the model files (or weights) at checkpoints during a training process
and return back when metrics start diverging or learning is not fast enough.

The checkpoints create a different dynamic around ML modeling process and need a
special support from the toolset:

1. Track and save model checkpoints (DVC outputs) periodically, not only the
   final result or training epoch.
2. Save metrics corresponding to each of the checkpoints.
3. Reuse checkpoints - warm-start training with an existing model file,
   corresponding code, dataset version and metrics.

This new behaviour is supported in DVC 2.0. Now, DVC can version all your
checkpoints with corresponding code and data. It brings reproducibility of DL
processes to the next level - every checkpoint is reproducible.

This is how you define checkpoints with live-metrics:

> ```

Reviewer 2: should be empty?

Reviewer: Probably WIP (I'm waiting for that to review/copy edit the 2nd half).

`vars` block, and play with them. This is a natural thing to do for scenarios
like NLP or when hyperparameter optimization is happening not only in the model
training code but in the data processing as well.

### Pipeline parameters from params files

It is quite common to define pipeline parameters in a config file or a
parameters file (like `params.yaml`) instead of in the pipeline file `dvc.yaml`
itself. These parameters defined in `params.yaml` can also be used in
`dvc.yaml`.

```yaml
# params.yaml
models:
  us:
    thresh: 10
    filename: 'model-us.hdf5'
```

```yaml
# dvc.yaml
stages:
  build-us:
    cmd: >-
      python script.py
        --out ${models.us.filename}
        --thresh ${models.us.thresh}
    outs:
      - ${models.us.filename}
```

DVC properly tracks params dependencies for each stage starting from the
previous DVC version 1.0. See the
[`--params` option](/doc/command-reference/run#for-displaying-and-comparing-data-science-experiments)
of `dvc run` for more details.

### Iterating over params with foreach stages

Iterating over params was a frequently requested feature. Now users can define

> multiple similar stages with a templetized command.

Reviewer: Quick typo fix (my bad)
```suggestion
multiple similar stages with a templatized command.
```

of `dvc run` for more details.

### Iterating over params with foreach stages

Iterating over params was a frequently requested feature. Now users can define
multiple similar stages with a templatized command.

```yaml
stages:
  build:
    foreach:
      gb:
        thresh: 15
        filename: 'model-gb.hdf5'
      us:
        thresh: 10
        filename: 'model-us.hdf5'
    do:
      cmd: >-
        python script.py --out ${item.filename} --thresh ${item.thresh}
      outs:
        - ${item.filename}
```

## Lightweight ML experiments

DVC uses Git as a foundation for ML experiments. This solid foundation makes
each ML experiment reproducible and accessible from Git history. This Git-based
approach works very well for ML projects with mature ML models when only a few
new experiments per day are running. However, in more active development when
dozens or hundreds of experiments need to be run in a single day, Git creates
overhead - each experiment run requires additional Git commands
`git add/commit`, and comparing all experiments is difficult.

We introduce lightweight experiments in DVC 2.0! This is the way of
auto-tracking without any overhead from ML engineers.

> ⚠️ Note, ML experiment is an experimental feature in the coming release. It
> means the commands might change a bit even after the release.

Reviewer: Copy edit:
```suggestion
⚠️ Note, our new ML experiment features (`dvc exp`) are experimental in the
coming release. This means that the commands might change a bit in following
minor releases.
```

> Run an ML experiment with a new hyperparameter from `params.yaml`:

Reviewer: Should we add `` `dvc exp run` `` in this line so it auto-links to the cmd ref. when that is published? Rn there are very few links to the commands.

Reviewer: Same for the following paragraphs before each code block. Could mention each command (`apply/branch/gc`).

Author: good idea!

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --set-param featurize.max_features=3000

Reproduced experiment(s): exp-bb55c
Experiment results have been applied to your workspace.

$ dvc exp diff
Path         Metric    Value    Change
scores.json  auc       0.57462  0.0072197

Path         Param                   Value    Change
params.yaml  featurize.max_features  3000     1500
```

More experiments:

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --set-param featurize.max_features=4000
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-9bf22
Experiment results have been applied to your workspace.

$ dvc exp run --set-param featurize.max_features=5000
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-63ee0
Experiment results have been applied to your workspace.

$ dvc exp run --set-param featurize.max_features=5000 \
                --set-param featurize.ngrams=3
Reproduced experiment(s): exp-80655
Experiment results have been applied to your workspace.
```

In the examples above, hyperparamters were changed automaticaly by option

> `--set-param`. User can make this changes manualy by modifying the file. The

Reviewer 3: "manually"

> In the examples above, hyperparamters were changed automaticaly by option
> `--set-param`. User can make this changes manualy by modifying the file. The
> same way _any code or data files can be changed_ and `dvc exp run` will capture
> the changes.

Reviewer: Copy edit:
```suggestion
In the examples above, hyperparamters were changed with the `--set-param`
option, but you can make these changes by modifying the params file instead. In
fact _any code or data files can be changed_ and `dvc exp run` will capture the
variations.
```

See all the runs:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --no-pager --no-timestamp \
        --include-params featurize.max_features,featurize.ngrams
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓

> ┃ Experiment    ┃     auc ┃ featurize.max_features ┃ featurize.ngrams ┃

Reviewer 3: The second line looks like it has too many spaces after "Experiment" in the published version.

> ┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┩

Reviewer 3: The first line and third line look off here in the published version.

│ workspace     │ 0.56359 │ 5000                   │ 3                │
│ master        │  0.5674 │ 1500                   │ 2                │
│ ├── exp-80655 │ 0.56359 │ 5000                   │ 3                │
│ ├── exp-63ee0 │  0.5515 │ 5000                   │ 2                │
│ ├── exp-9bf22 │ 0.56448 │ 4000                   │ 2                │
│ └── exp-bb55c │ 0.57462 │ 3000                   │ 2                │
└───────────────┴─────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
```

Under the hood DVC uses Git to store the experiments meta-information.

> Straight-forward implementation on top of Git should include branches and
> auto-commits in the branches. This approach over-pollutes the branch namespace
> very quickly. To avoid this issue, we introduced Git custom references `exps`
> the same way as GitHub uses Git custom references `pulls` to track pull
> requests. This is an interesting technical topic that deserves a separate blog
> post. Below you can see how it works.

Reviewer: Copy edit:
```suggestion
A straight-forward implementation would create visible branches and auto-commit
in them, but that approach would over-pollute the branch namespace very quickly.
To avoid this issue, we introduced custom Git references `exps`, the same way as
GitHub uses custom references `pulls` to track pull requests (this is an
interesting technical topic that deserves a separate blog post). Below you can
see how it works.
```

> No artificial branches, only custome references `exps` (do not worry if you

Reviewer 3: "custom"

to save the model files (or weights) at checkpoints during a training process
and return back when metrics start diverging or learning is not fast enough.

The checkpoints create a different dynamic around ML modeling process and need a
special support from the toolset:

1. Track and save model checkpoints (DVC outputs) periodically, not only the
   final result or training epoch.
2. Save metrics corresponding to each of the checkpoints.
3. Reuse checkpoints - warm-start training with an existing model file,
   corresponding code, dataset version and metrics.

This new behaviour is supported in DVC 2.0. Now, DVC can version all your
checkpoints with corresponding code and data. It brings reproducibility of DL
processes to the next level - every checkpoint is reproducible.

This is how you define checkpoints with live-metrics:

```dvc
$ dvc stage add -n train \
        -d users.csv -d train.py \
        -p dropout,epochs,lr,process \
        --checkpoint model.h5 \
        --live logs \
    python train.py

Creating 'dvc.yaml'
Adding stage 'train' in 'dvc.yaml'
```

Note, we use `dvc stage add` command instead of `dvc run`. Starting from DVC 2.0

> we extracting all stage specific functionality under `dvc stage` unbrella.

Reviewer 3: "umbrella"

> `dvc run` is still working but it wll be depricated in the following DVC version

Reviewer 3: "deprecated"

(most likely in 3.0).

> Start the training process and interrupt it after 5 epoches:

Reviewer 3: "epochs"

```dvc
$ dvc exp run
'users.csv.dvc' didn't change, skipping
Running stage 'train':
> python train.py
...
^CTraceback (most recent call last):
...
KeyboardInterrupt
```

Navigate in checkpoints:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --no-pager --no-timestamp
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━┓

> ┃ Experiment    ┃ step ┃   loss ┃ accuracy ┃ val_loss ┃ … ┃ epochs ┃ … ┃

Reviewer 3: The second line looks like it has too many spaces after "Experiment" in the published version.

> ┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━┩

Reviewer 3: The first line and third line look off here in the published version.

Author: @dberenbaum could you please clarify? Are you talking about `master` line with `logs` in `val_loss`?

Author: if so, it is a bug in dvc :( I can fake it of course but we need a proper fix.

│ workspace     │    4 │ 2.0702 │  0.30388 │    2.025 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ master        │    - │      5 │  2.1e-07 │     logs │ … │ 0.124  │ … │
│ │ ╓ exp-e15bc │    4 │ 2.0702 │  0.30388 │    2.025 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 5ea8327   │    4 │ 2.0702 │  0.30388 │    2.025 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ bc0cf02   │    3 │ 2.1338 │  0.23988 │   2.0883 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ f8cf03f   │    2 │ 2.1989 │  0.17932 │   2.1542 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 7575a44   │    1 │ 2.2694 │  0.12833 │    2.223 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ ├─╨ a72c526   │    0 │ 2.3416 │   0.0959 │   2.2955 │ … │ 5      │ … │

> └───────────────┴──────┴────────┴──────────┴──────────┴───┴────────┴───┘

Reviewer 3: The table formatting looks all off in the published version for some reason.

```

Each of the checkpoint above is a separate experiment with all data, code,
paramaters and metrics. You can use the same `dvc exp apply` command to extract
any of these.

Another run just continues this process. You can see how accuracy metrics is
increasing - DVC does not remove the model/checkpoint and training code trains
on top of it:

```dvc
$ dvc exp run
Existing checkpoint experiment 'exp-e15bc' will be resumed
...
^C
KeyboardInterrupt

$ dvc exp show --no-pager --no-timestamp
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━┳━━━━━━━━┳━━━┓
┃ Experiment    ┃ step ┃   loss ┃ accuracy ┃ val_loss ┃ … ┃ epochs ┃ … ┃

> ┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━╇━━━━━━━━╇━━━┩

Reviewer 3: The first line and third line look off here in the published version.

│ workspace     │    9 │ 1.7845 │  0.58125 │   1.7381 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ master        │    - │      5 │  2.1e-07 │     logs │ … │ 0.124  │ … │
│ │ ╓ exp-e15bc │    9 │ 1.7845 │  0.58125 │   1.7381 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 205a8d3   │    9 │ 1.7845 │  0.58125 │   1.7381 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ dd23d96   │    8 │ 1.8369 │  0.54173 │   1.7919 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 5bb3a1f   │    7 │ 1.8929 │  0.49108 │   1.8474 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 6dc5610   │    6 │  1.951 │  0.43433 │   1.9046 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ a79cf29   │    5 │ 2.0088 │  0.36837 │   1.9637 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ bf276cf   │    4 │ 2.0702 │  0.30388 │    2.025 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 5ea8327   │    4 │ 2.0702 │  0.30388 │    2.025 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ bc0cf02   │    3 │ 2.1338 │  0.23988 │   2.0883 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ f8cf03f   │    2 │ 2.1989 │  0.17932 │   2.1542 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ │ ╟ 7575a44   │    1 │ 2.2694 │  0.12833 │    2.223 │ … │ 5      │ … │
│ ├─╨ a72c526   │    0 │ 2.3416 │   0.0959 │   2.2955 │ … │ 5      │ … │
└───────────────┴──────┴────────┴──────────┴──────────┴───┴────────┴───┘
```

> Afrer modifing code, data or params the same process can be resumed. DVC

Reviewer 3: "After modifying"

│ │ ╓ 2b06de7           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ 205a8d3           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ dd23d96           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ 5bb3a1f           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ 6dc5610           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ a79cf29           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ bf276cf           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ 5ea8327           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ bc0cf02           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ f8cf03f           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ │ ╟ 7575a44           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
│ ├─╨ a72c526           │    - │      - │          │          │   │        │   │
└───────────────────────┴──────┴────────┴──────────┴──────────┴───┴────────┴───┘
```

Sometimes you might need training the model from scratch. Reset option removes

> the checkpoint file before the traning: `dvc exp run --reset`

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:

```
Sometimes you might need to train the model from scratch. The reset option removes the checkpoint file before training: `dvc exp run --reset`.
```

you a metrics difference between current model and a model in `master` or any
other branch.

This approach is similar to the other metrics tracking tools with the difference
that Git becomes a "database" or of ML experiments.

### Generate metrics file

Install the library:

```dvc
$ pip install dvclive
```

Instrument your code:

```python
import dvclive
from dvclive.keras import DvcLiveCallback

dvclive.init("logs") #, summarize=True)

...

model.fit(...
          # Set up DVC-Live callback:
          callbacks=[ DvcLiveCallback() ]
         )

```

During the training you will see the metrics files that are continiously
populated each epoches:

```dvc
$ ls logs/
accuracy.tsv     loss.tsv         val_accuracy.tsv val_loss.tsv

$ head logs/accuracy.tsv
timestamp	step	accuracy
1613645582716	0	0.7360000014305115
1613645585478	1	0.8349999785423279
1613645587322	2	0.8830000162124634
1613645589125	3	0.9049999713897705
1613645590891	4	0.9070000052452087
1613645592681	5	0.9279999732971191
1613645594490	6	0.9430000185966492
1613645596232	7	0.9369999766349792
1613645598034	8	0.9430000185966492
```

In addition to the continious metrics files you will see the summary metrics

> file and html file with the same file prefix. The summary file conteins the

Reviewer 3: "contains"

result of the latest epoch:

```dvc
$ cat logs.json | python -m json.tool
{
    "step": 41,
    "loss": 0.015958430245518684,
    "accuracy": 0.9950000047683716,
    "val_loss": 13.705962181091309,
    "val_accuracy": 0.5149999856948853
}
```

> The html file contains all the visuals for continious metrics as well as the

Reviewer 3: "continuous"

summary metrics in a single page:

![](/uploads/images/2021-02-18/dvclive-html.png)

Note, the HTML and the summary metrics files are generating automatically for
each. So, you can monitor model performance in realtime.

### Git-navigation with the metrics file

DVC repository is NOT required to use the live metrics functionality from the
above. It works independently from DVC.

> DVC repository become usefule when the metrics and plots are commited in your

Reviewer 3: "useful"
